index.md, before:

---
layout: splash
permalink: /

title: "Architolk"
excerpt: "Documentation of projects"
action: false

feature_row:
  - image_path: "assets/thumbs/retroloti.png"
    title: "Retroloti"
    excerpt: "A generic controler for the Axoloti Audio DSP board, retro style"
    url: "/retroloti/"
    btn_class: "btn--info"
  - image_path: "assets/thumbs/dxfm2.png"
    title: "dXFM2"
    excerpt: "My attempt to create an FM synthesizer with an 'easy' one-know-one-function interface"
    url: "/dxfm2/"
    btn_class: "btn--info"
  - image_path: "assets/thumbs/ac5.png"
    title: "AC5"
    excerpt: "Converting a Pathfinder 10 into a real tube amp, resembling the '60s VOX style AC amps"
    url: "/ac5"
    btn_class: "btn--info"
  - image_path: "assets/thumbs/vocoder.png"
    title: "Vocoder"
    excerpt: "The ongoing project to create a real analog vocoder"
    url: "/vocoder/"
    btn_class: "btn--info"
  - image_path: "assets/thumbs/treblebooster.png"
    title: "Treble booster"
    excerpt: "The all-in-one treble booster: tube, germanium and silicon all in one box"
    url: "/booster/"
    btn_class: "btn--info"
  - image_path: "assets/thumbs/springreverb.png"
    title: "Spring reverb"
    excerpt: "Creating a spring reverb in a box"
    url: "/springreverb"
    btn_class: "btn--info"
  - image_path: "assets/thumbs/mikrophonie.png"
    title: "Mikrophonie"
    excerpt: "The ongoing project to create a noise box"
    url: "/mikrophonie"
    btn_class: "btn--info"

---
{% include feature_row %}

Commit message:

First version of the internet

index.md, after:

---
layout: splash
permalink: /

title: "Architolk"
excerpt: "Documentation of projects"
action: false

feature_row:
  - image_path: "assets/thumbs/retroloti.png"
    title: "Retroloti"
    excerpt: "A generic controler for the Axoloti Audio DSP board, retro style"
    url: "/retroloti/"
    btn_class: "btn--info"
  - image_path: "assets/thumbs/dxfm2.png"
    title: "dXFM2"
    excerpt: "My attempt to create an FM synthesizer with an 'easy' one-know-one-function interface"
    url: "/dxfm2/"
    btn_class: "btn--info"
  - image_path: "assets/thumbs/ac5.png"
    title: "AC5"
    excerpt: "Converting a Pathfinder 10 into a real tube amp, resembling the '60s VOX style AC amps"
    url: "/ac5"
    btn_class: "btn--info"
  - image_path: "assets/thumbs/vocoder.png"
    title: "Vocoder"
    excerpt: "The ongoing project to create a real analog vocoder"
    url: "/vocoder/"
    btn_class: "btn--info"
  - image_path: "assets/thumbs/treblebooster.png"
    title: "Treble booster"
    excerpt: "The all-in-one treble booster: tube, germanium and silicon all in one box"
    url: "/booster/"
    btn_class: "btn--info"
  - image_path: "assets/thumbs/springreverb.png"
    title: "Spring reverb"
    excerpt: "Creating a spring reverb in a box"
    url: "/springreverb"
    btn_class: "btn--info"
  - image_path: "assets/thumbs/mikrophonie.png"
    title: "Mikrophonie"
    excerpt: "The ongoing project to create a noise box"
    url: "/mikrophonie"
    btn_class: "btn--info"
  - image_path: "assets/thumbs/the-internet.png"
    title: "The Internet"
    excerpt: "The onging project tot create THE INTERNET"
    url: "/the-internet"
    btn_class: "btn--info"

---
{% include feature_row %}
